Welcome back.
Up to this point we've played around with some javascript types.
Only three out of seven.
Don't worry we'll get to the rest of them.
But there's one problem.
How does a program remember things.
For example if we write These pretzels are making me thirsty and we'll do this.
Plus we need the exclamation.
OK I enter that OK.
I get that.
That's good.
But if I need to use this again Well again I have to ride these brats pls
are making me thirsty and imagine you had to do that hundreds of time.
That's kind of annoying right.
That's computers are supposed to help us but instead we just keep writing stuff and keep writing stuff.
And that's not very efficient is it well to catch and hold values.
JavaScript has something called variables and variables can be used with the word var.
So now if I go var George so VAR is for variable equals These pretzels are making me thirsty.
Plus exclamation mark
notices a call in here I will explain what that does in a bit I press enter I get undefined let's not
worry about that that doesn't matter for now and now if I go George and you'll see that's Google Chrome
actually helps me and recognizes it I press enter These pretzels are making me thirsty How awesome is
that so we're able to store this value and obviously this is simple but imagine this was a long calculation
that we had to make and we want to access it well all we need to do now is have George it's a variable.
So now you see in the last video when I said that when we're comparing things we have to use three equals
well because when you do three equals three it's saying assign the number three two three but there
is a rule with variables with variables you can start with numbers.
So if I go variable three equals three I'll get an error but if I go variable three equals three.
Well that's no problem.
And variables have a few rules the rules are well it needs to start with a letter.
It can end with a number that's fine but it needs to start with the letter and it can't start with a
symbol.
So I can't do var and sign Hello equals five.
No I'll get an error.
So a variable needs to start with the letter can end in a number that's fine.
And there's a few other special cases a variable can also start with a dollar sign or an underscore
but we don't need to worry about that too much.
And the standard in JavaScript so you won't get an error if this happens but you do something called
camel case.
So if it was a word let's say first name you would do camel case because these are two separate words
you do lowercase the first word.
Second word is gonna have uppercase.
So first name so you capitalize the first letter and that's called camel case.
So still not getting what variables are.
Well I'm going to I'm going to demonstrate this point further in why we need to store values in a programming
language.
I'm going to introduce you to a little cool trick called Prompt and prompt when I use these brackets
and I press enter.
Look at that.
I got something here and it's asking for something and I press OK and look at that.
It returns whatever I typed.
Let's try that again.
If I go prompt press center I say hello press OK I get that response back.
OK.
So how can we say something like what's your username and store that value.
That's something that we use quite a lot on Web sites right.
Well with prompt you can do prompt opening and closing bracket and then here we'll say what is your
user name.
So we're entering a string here.
And if I press enter OK.
So it says what is your user name.
So now if I died then my user name is Andre I get the username so using that knowledge let's make a
calculator.
Let's do var.
First equals
enter first number
and then I'm going to press the shift here so that I can add a new line.
So shift enter and I'm going to say variable second equals prompt
enter second number
and now if I press enter I'll get enter first number I'll say five.
Press OK then enter second number I say 10 and press OK.
OK but now I got undefined but here's the cool thing.
Now I have these values held in these variables so I can use them if I check first.
I have five if I check.
Second I have 10.
But you'll notice that I have double quotes around them.
And that's because prompt automatically changes it to string it's expecting a form of text.
So there's a cool trick to change a string into a number.
And all we need to do and this is just syntax we need to remember is no and then we'll do first
and will give us five.
So all we need to do now is do no first plus no second and we'll get the some of these too but again
we can use a variable here.
I don't want to keep typing this.
So what if I do variable sum equals no first plus no second semicolon press enter.
Nothing yet because it's in the some now so if I ask for some I guess 15.
OK so let's write our first program here.
I'm going to show you one other cool trick and that is.
Alert.
So instead of prompt we're gonna use alert and alert what it does is says hi there
if our press enter I get a pop up but without anything to enter Justin.
Okay but so using this we can create a calculator so let's do this.
And in Chrome if you actually press the up arrow you'll remember your history and you can pull up whatever
you've typed in.
So you remember here we have first second.
So those are the two prompts and then I'm going to say variable some equals number the first plus number
of the Second
and finally again I do shift entries so that the code doesn't get executed and I do alert some so just
looking at this.
What do you think's gonna happen.
I first asked for a prompt and I saw that value in first the second prompt asked for a second no stores
it in the second the sum calculates the two numbers.
And then I alert the sum I get a press enter and see what happens and your first number I'm going to
say 15.
OK.
Next number I'm going to say 20.
OK and look at that.
I got 35 as the answer and again knowing what we know about strings and numbers I can now do.
Again I pressed up to have exactly why I wrote back.
Now I can say within the alert the sum is close the bracket plus some.
So let's see that if I press enter I'll go three plus four the sum is seven.
Look at that our first program variables can hold any javascript type think of them as little drawers
in your desk.
So in your desk you can open up that drawer and put anything you want in there your pens paper your
racers calculators and you can close that door and whenever you need a pen or a calculator you can open
that door and grab it.
And that's what variables are now.
The one thing that I've kind of omitted and I haven't told you about is this little weird seven call
in here.
Why do we need it.
I mean we were able to do three plus four and we didn't see a semicolon.
Well in JavaScript semicolon means the end of an expression.
So what does that mean.
A fragment of code that produces a value is called an expression so any value that's written really
is an expression.
So if I do three.
Well that's an expression it produces a value three plus four is an expression in JavaScript.
The rule is and then there are some people actually that don't use semicolons anymore.
But the way it was built and the way that it's intended to work is to do three plus four add a semicolon.
Most of the time if you forget it'll still work.
There's only small cases where I'll break your program but just to form good habits for now.
By the end of each expression.
So that is anything we've done so far.
Add a semicolon and you'll get used to it OK.
Let's keep going with variables because they're very interesting.
What if I do variable k equals true.
Because remember variables can hold anything so variables can hold billions and variables can hold strings
and variables can hold numbers as we've seen.
So where are you going to hold variable a equals true but now what if I.
Well I can access a but what if I say a equals Hello What do you think will happen if I press a and
then enter.
Well I get hello because you can reassign a value to a because initially the program thought a equals
2 true.
But then we said well a equals hello now.
So it discarded the true value.
And now a is equal to Hello.
And we've completely forgotten about true okay.
Another little trick.
What happens if I go like this.
Does that work or will I get an error.
Let's see
undefined.
I didn't get that red bar nowhere.
Okay.
What if I access the.
Let's see what happens.
Well hello was assigned the last bar so let's let's do a different variable so if I do variable B which
we haven't used before and I do this.
Let's see if we can access it undefined B is undefined and you may have noticed this before but undefined
is our fourth type in JavaScript and I know it's weird because you're you're asking yourself what is
undefined.
Well undefined is just one thing in JavaScript as a name suggests.
This means that the variable has not been assigned.
So think of it as you'll get undefined if variable password is like this.
So if a user doesn't put it in a password well you'll get undefined and you'll be able to say well password
is undefined you need to enter a password or maybe a form requires an email address well if email is
undefined then you can't sign them up to the form so undefined is used when nothing is assigned to a
variable so remember this just like you move stuff out of the drawer in your desk and put something
else in variables can be assigned to different things.
I can move my pen from one drawer to another I can change things in that drawer and if there's nothing
in that drawer while it's undefined okay that's a very very big concept in JavaScript hopefully you
understand I have a few exercises for you at the end of this video I know you can do it.
Good luck and see you in the next video.
Bye bye.